---
layout: post
title: RTYC Coronavirus Statement
subtitle:
tags: [RTYC, COVID19]
---

You will all be aware of the currently situation with Coronavirus and recent announcements by the government. Royal Torbay Yacht Club takes the health, safety and wellbeing of its members, visitors and staff very seriously so we would like to take the opportunity to explain what action we are currently taking, what actions we may take and what impact this may have in the coming weeks and months.  

## Current Situation
For the past few weeks, we have been keeping a very close eye on the rapidly developing situation and have been putting in place appropriate measures. Where necessary, we have cancelled events or changed the format of events to mitigate the risk of transmission.  

### Actions we are currently taking in the clubhouse:

* Our cleaners are no longer focusing on cosmetic cleaning and are instead cleaning surfaces that visitors to the building are coming into contact with.
* The Club Office remains open as normal, but the office itself is now off limits to everyone bar the two members of staff who normally work in there (Michael & Caroline). This may change in the future, if so we will inform members.
* Bar cleaning has been stepped up and measures have been taken to distance staff and members using the bar, including:
  * Removal of bar stools at the bar,
  * Changes to card processing procedures to minimise contact,
  * Discouraging acceptance of cash,
  * Increased hand washing after every transaction.
* Hand sanitiser is available in the main entrance.
* Regular toilet checks throughout the day to ensure effective handwashing is always available.  

All social events through until next week are cancelled, this includes next Wednesday’s Quiz Night (Wed 25th March).  

## What we are asking members to do  
There are a number of measures we are asking members to take so as to contain the spread of Coronavirus as much as possible:

* Follow good hygiene when in the club, use the hand sanitiser, wash your hands and always cough or sneeze into your sleeve or into a tissue that you immediately dispose of.
* If you or any of your family members have any symptoms, we would ask you not to visit the club and suggest you follow government guidelines on self-isolation.
* If you are in what would be considered an at-risk group, we would suggest you do not visit the Club.
* If you contract Coronavirus within a few days of visiting the Club, please inform us with details of who you may have been in close contact with.
* If you need to make contact with the Office, where possible we ask you to limit it to telephone or email. The office is open as normal, but we are trying to minimise close contact as much as possible.  

## What will happen next  
The situation is developing very rapidly and will obviously have an impact on plans for the Club for this year; the extent of which is currently not known but it is likely to be significant.    

A working party has been formed comprising a sub-set of members of the Management Committee, they will be meeting regularly to ensure the effects of this current situation are mitigated as far as is possible.  

A further communication advising on Club access is likely to follow before the end of the week.  

If any members have questions on this please contact the Club office who will do their best to answer them.  
